Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
-MAN 1: Surprise!
-
GIRL: Whoo!
DANIELA: They see us as girls.
and they just tell us
that we don't really know
what we're up against
and we don't know
how to build a chemical company.
The chemical companies
that exist right now were made by someone.
so why can't that someone be us?
I don't know why...
It's marketing. right? Marketing.
I'm a Girl Scout.
All my life. I've been a Girl Scout.
Girl Scouts can sell everything.
They sell cookies all year.
If you're on a diet.
don't worry we have sugar-free cookies.
You have to sell the cookies.
if you wanna go to camp.
I learned don't give up.
keep moving. you know?
STEPHEN: Yesterday. we had
51 different nationalities representing
their countries
as the top student entrepreneurs.
Everybody that comes
to Macau wants to win.
Everyone is ambitious.
You know that you have to present
100% of yourself.
and it's all about your execution.
-STEPHEN: And the first place.
GSEA 2019 winner. the award goes to...
-
We know every single.
like. "in" Latin pop song.
-DANIELA: That's true.
-Because Daniela listens to them all.
MIGUEL: I... I think we probably have
one of the only labs in the US
...what you hear in the lab.
MYRIAM: Like. Daniela will put her.
like. headphones in.
-These. like. big purple headphones...
-
And then. like. you'll. like. walk by.
and if there's no one in the office.
-you'll just see her being. like...
-
So. this is the first reactor
we started with.
It's a proof of concept.
and it's only about the size of my hand.
The solution comes in
with the reactants.
Reaction happens inside.
and then the products come out.
And then you can just connect
your solar cells to your reactor.
and then you would be powering
the reaction directly with solar energy.
The chemical industry. for years.
has been using heat
from burning fossil fuels.
to power chemical reactions.
But I had a technology where I had proven
that I could make synthetic chemicals.
but with the sun.
Nylon is a 35 billion dollar market.
Chemical companies
that make nylon right now.
they're not necessarily trying
to make it more sustainable.
Every single time somebody
has tried to enter the market.
they just get rid of that person.
I have developed a process
to produce key components
for nylon in a way that is more efficient.
less expensive. and. for the first time.
it can also be sustainable.
MIGUEL:
I think this is a world-changing idea.
Using solar energy. renewable energy.
to drive chemical process
can really change the world.
Once that was a reality. we thought
maybe we could make this into a business.
So. Myriam and I.
both of us chemical engineers.
no knowledge in business.
joined forces.
and that's how Sunthetics was born.
MIGUEL: Nobody believes
how powerful these girls are.
They're not seen as a threat.
although I think they really are.
MYRIAM: There were just. like.
a lot of things
that we had no idea how to do.
Like. this is. like. you're talking
to two chemical engineers
-that are. like. you know. like....
-
..."What is finance?"
Like. "What is startup?"
Yeah. "Who's an investor?
Like. what does that mean?"
I mean. like. look at her. she's so sweet.
We're just two little cute girls.
And no one's ever gonna be like.
"Oh. these girls are gonna. like.
change the chemical industry."
-Just wait for it.
-Yeah.
No. I think you're...
DANIELA: They see us as two girls.
and they just tell us we don't really know
what we're up against and we don't know
how to scale up
and build a chemical company.
But we're gonna prove them wrong.
so. it's okay.
-DANIELA: Hola. mami!
-
DANIELA: I grew up in Venezuela.
My mom is a single mom.
She works as a civil engineer.
And as I grew up.
I was incredibly happy. I felt safe.
We lived perfectly well.
FEMALE VOICE: Rallies degenerated
into violence.
The near-daily unrest
in Venezuela has culminated once again
in the death of a protestor.
DANIELA:
Our economy absolutely collapsed.
Everything collapsed
in terms of our society as well.
I was a student in chemical engineering.
and it became incredibly hard.
The protests were so bad...
that the government
started targeting students.
I didn't feel safe.
and I realized that I couldn't stay there.
I came to the US.
I got accepted into the PhD program
in chemical engineering at NYU.
And I haven't been back ever since.
DANIELA: That's the biggest challenge
that I have over here as an immigrant.
The fact that I'm far away.
and the fact that
I live worried about those who I love.
STEPHEN: Welcome to the GSEA
National Competition 2019.
So. I want everybody to kinda come in
and then go back deeper. Back deeper.
DANIELA: At the US Nationals.
I remember talking to my mom
on the phone and being like... like.
"This is just a whole new level."
PHOTOGRAPHER: All right. Here we go.
One. two. three.
-PHOTOGRAPHER: Lovely.
I'm sure all the judges
have never seen a pitch like this.
-the one I'm gonna do.
-
So. yeah. I'm just really excited
to see how they react.
CHRIS: We were in the Nationals last year
and we came in second.
So. we're back here hoping
for. uh. one better of a result.
WOMAN: I think everyone's ideas
are so good.
Of course.
I've got to say mine's the best.
but we'll see who gets
into the finalist round.
All right. We're ready.
EVAN: Welcome. I'm Evan Sledge.
What we are is a hunting
and fishing guiding service
currently located in Texas and Alaska.
KOBY: My name is Koby Lomax.
and I am currently running
a pretty lucrative. a personal brand.
I get comments like this all the time.
"That would be lit if you made
your own hair line though.
"for real. for real."
I had no clue
what they were actually looking for
or who was gonna win
because everything was just so different.
Bitcoin is the greatest
technological advancement in history.
behind only the internet.
We had people. like. pitching
a very inspiring social works
in. like. India or African countries.
CHRIS:
Cryptocurrency creates a global economy.
and with Yellow Card.
that economy is open to
and accessible by everyone.
Welcome to the future of money.
We had people like pitching sunglasses.
Fifty-five percent of the people
that wear sunglasses actually lose them.
There was so much going on
at the same time.
MAN: You fold them out.
put them on your head.
Now. here's the kicker.
You click the back in.
So. now they don't...
You... you can shake. you can do whatever
you want. they won't fall off.
DANIELA: I think the hardest part
was just seeing...
There was the girl who pitched before me.
and when she came out.
her mom was right there.
And they hugged and they were so happy.
And I just felt
like a little bit alone. you know?
So. it was like really.
really tough for me for a little bit.
But. um...
I can't do this. I'm sorry.
Oh. wow. I'm so sorry.
MIGUEL: I think one... one of the things
that people don't realize.
Daniela is
under incredible amount of stress.
The stakes. uh. for success
of the company are very high.
Not only because of the company itself.
but also because her personal situation
is somewhat attached to it.
If the company were to succeed.
then it's much easier for her
to help her family. uh. back home.
But also. there are
some immigration issues. uh. in the US
that. uh. will be easier
if the company were successful.
Hello. everyone.
My name is Daniela Blanco.
I am a PhD student
in chemical engineering at NYU.
and I'm also the co-founder of Sunthetics.
Nobody else in the room knows
that you're nervous.
if you don't let them know that.
Making these processes more efficient.
safer and renewable.
You just get up. You take your time.
You fix your skirt. You fix your dress.
And then you walk there like you own it.
Producing the very first cost-competitive.
solar-powered nylon chemicals.
Nobody needs to know
that I'm shaking inside.
I want and I dream
that Sunthetics will be my platform
to make the chemical industry clean.
one reaction at a time.
And that. of course. is no easy task.
But I have a loving family
that supports me in the distance
and a mom who always gives me
the strength to aim higher.
Thank you so much for your kind attention.
I loved his logical. factual.
kind of calculated.
"This is how I'm gonna do it.
step one. step two. step three."
FEMALE JUDGE:
Not just focusing on.
well. which business is gonna be
the most successful. the fastest.
-MALE JUDGE: Yeah.
-FEMALE JUDGE: But who is the entrepreneur
that is gonna sit here and wow this planet
in the next five. ten. 20 years.
and do something pretty amazing.
STEPHEN: Would all of our finalists
from this afternoon
-please come up to the stage?
-
All right. The winner. all the way
-from New York...
-New York City...
-BOTH: ...Daniela Blanco.
-
Mommy...
She... she's the kind of mom who cried
at absolutely every award that I got.
I don't have one picture that she took
that was. like. steady.
In all of them. she's. like. crying
and screaming and being happy.
HENRY'S FATHER:
HENRY:
MERCY:
-HENRY:
HENRY:
-
-MALE INTERVIEWER:
-Because...
HENRY'S FATHER:
HENRY:
No.
HUSTON:
HENRY'S FATHER:
HENRY:
-Caustic soda.
FEMALE INTERVIEWER:
-SANTOSH:
Yeah.
SANTOSH:
-Happy birthday! Whoo!
-Aw.
SANTOSH:
KUNDA: There's been a long history
of Nepalese migrating abroad.
But in the last 20 years.
it's really gone up.
At any given time. about 10 to 15%
of Nepal's 30 million people.
is working abroad.
Almost every family. uh.
in Nepal has someone working abroad.
or multiple members working abroad.
This family dislocation. I think is the...
is the hardest part of migration.
The social cost of it is quite high.
What he's trying to do.
I think. is address the problem of Nepal's
gross national sadness
that comes from migration
and separation of families.
And in a small way. try to make it easier.
SANTOSH:
FEMALE VOICE: Whoo!
We have a bakery in Bayamon.
-My dad is the owner.
-
ALONDRA:
He's the one who manage the bakery.
And my mom is the one
who creates all the pastries
and the cakes and the quesitos.
which is our signature in the bakery.
-FERNANDO:
-
MALE REPORTER: The eye of Hurricane Maria
just came ashore in Puerto Rico.
Maria's top winds
are now 155 miles per hour.
-
When we find out about the hurricane.
we didn't know it was gonna be
so destructive for Puerto Rico.
We prepare ourselves for the hurricane.
but we didn't know
it was gonna be like that.
There was no communication.
We're talking about. we were stuck.
It's like being in Walking Dead.
ALONDRA: We have a generator.
and we had the opportunity
to create bread
and also pastries to give to all
the community because they...
they didn't have water or food
because all the supermarkets were closed
and all the food stores were closed.
FERNANDO:
Every single person in the family.
including my grandmother.
my grandfather. my aunts
were... were helping
because there wasn't nothing else to do.
ALONDRA:
My parents encouraged me not to give up
and to stay and fight
to better the island.
In the aftermath of the hurricane.
I realized the deaf community
was suffering most.
especially from depression.
In all my life. I've been related
to the deaf community
because my cousin is deaf.
I met this woman called Yamilet.
She told me that she tried
to commit suicide three times in her life.
But the most sad part is
that she have never
gone to a mental health professional
because the deaf population
don't have accessibility
to these services.
-ALONDRA:
And the winner
of the Student Entrepreneur Award is...
-Alondra Toledo.
-
I have so much passion
for this community that I'm helping
that I wanna win always.
We had a really bad year.
but I think this opportunity
is gonna help me to give voice
to those who really doesn't have it here
in the... in the island.
JASON: Most of the time. I walk to work.
to the office because I like it that way.
When I see other people's looks.
the most common question would be.
"Why is he carrying a baby?
"Is there something wrong with him?"
"Like. what is this guy actually doing?"
You know. it kinda alarms people.
It's just an innocent thing... or is it?
MALE INTERVIEWER: Talk about your concerns
about how we may portray you.
If one sees a video
of me making jokes. uh. 24/7.
and. um. you know.
laughing all the time...
-
They'll... they'll think of me
as a not serious guy.
MALE INTERVIEWER:
Like. dead... dead serious?
-MALE INTERVIEWER:
-Okay.
We can tell you why your baby is crying.
-Whether it's hungry. sleepy. or in pain.
IA FEMALE VOICE OVER PHONE:
Emma is in pain.
We can figure out if you're...
I mean. you're laughing.
-Wasn't it serious?
Come with me. Let me show you around.
This is where we're working.
-Hey. Jason. How are you?
-
Andreas. co-founder of iCry2Talk.
Anastasia Ntracha. COO of iCry2Talk.
Also co-founder.
This is the place
where everything began. in this office.
This is where the magic happens. guys.
We also have a couch where we have. uh.
our mascot. Emma. resting right now.
She needs to take a nap. So...
Babies cry the same. no matter the gender.
the race.
or any other cultural differences.
So. the mother has to register the baby
with some information.
And then at the central screen.
then we only have just one big button
that says tap to translate.
And it's quite easy.
The parent just taps the button
and it starts recording.
And within a few seconds.
we have the result of the translation.
First time I went to the clinic
and I saw the babies.
-they're so small. they're like this big.
-
So. imagine if you're a young parent.
first-time parent.
and they give you a baby like this.
"Okay. Take it. It's yours now.
It's... it's yours to care."
-ANDREAS: "Go home. Goodbye."
-"Go home. Goodbye."
Imagine if that small. tiny thing.
so fragile. started crying.
what would you do?
JASON: For us Greeks.
family plays a really important role
in our everyday lives.
This is traditional Greek table.
Not only we eat.
but. uh. the place where we also
discuss. uh. solve our problems.
talk about our problems.
-
Dad's... Dad's giving stage advice.
He says I'm moving too much my hands.
-
JASON:
Right before I finished high school.
my father started becoming ill.
And. uh. his situation
is steady... steadily declining.
Situations like this are the ones
that make us know ourselves
and take more responsibility
and stand up.
So. right at the moment
when I got in the university.
I didn't only have the studies.
me and my brother had
my father's construction business to run.
I always had this experience. so.
I had the mother figure. the father figure
of building something on their own.
The feeling of developing
a product out of nowhere.
and managing and creating
a sustainable business.
was something I always had inside of me.
and I always wanted to try to do it.
JASON: It's. uh. pretty ironic.
a young guy like me
not having a baby himself.
creating a solution for young parents.
I don't know if I'm going to be
the best dad when the time comes.
but I'll definitely
be way more experienced
because we've read
so many stuff about babies.
Their physiology.
their psychosocial development.
Well?
-MALE INTERVIEWER:
-Swaddle. Okay.
-MIGUEL: I think we should have a toast...
-
...to celebrate Daniela's prize. uh.
at the national level.
-And to send her off to Macau.
-ALL: Cheers!
-WOMAN: Cheers. Daniela!
MIGUEL:
DANIELA: When you're an immigrant.
it's really complicated.
You find yourself
throughout the entire day.
just like. looking at your phone.
talking to my mom.
making sure that she's okay.
And even if you try
to just have your entire attention
on whatever's in front of you.
it's pretty much impossible.
Like you always have part of your head
just thinking of something else.
MALE VOICE:
Oh. super. super excited.
Everyone knows. right.
that my mom is coming?
-ALL: Oh!
Oh. you didn't know? My mom is coming!
To have her come in with me to Macau
and to have her at the final competition.
means the world to me.
Not just because of the fact
that she's my best friend
and I would love to have her support.
but also because this is the competition
where I finally get to show them
that I am who I am because of Venezuela
and because of everything I lived.
DANIELA:
For me. the US has become my home.
It opened its doors to me.
The fact that they would let me
represent the US.
especially for me. since I'm an immigrant.
I feel so honored to be able to do this.
MERCY:
HENRY:
HENRY'S FATHER:
ALL:
ALONDRA'S MOTHER:
-
MANISH:
Today we are going to surprise Santosh.
This is actually
our first farewell surprise.
Because Santosh is going to GSEA.
all of his friends are gathered here.
We're telling him that we have
the confidence that you're going to win.
So. make us proud.
Please cry out "surprise"
any way you want to.
Surprise!
-MAN: Surprise!
-
-Surprise!
JASON: Most of the times.
there's partying during that competitions.
but the partying happens
after the pitching ends.
In order to party hard.
you have to play hard.
So. we'll pitch first. do our best.
and afterwards. when it's all over.
we're going to party really hard.
DANIELA: I still can't believe it.
I feel like till the last minute
when my mom was coming.
I still felt like.
maybe it's not gonna go right.
maybe she's not gonna be able to make it.
But now. I'm so. so happy
that everything worked out.
I'm actually the type of person
who gets nervous right before the thing.
Right now. I feel like everything
is gonna be okay.
but watch me tomorrow
and I'm gonna feel a little bit different.
We're only eight girls competing.
and with seven...
-Uh. 52 students.
-STUDENT: 52.
-So. yeah. Girl power.
-Girl power.
JASON: Everybody that comes to Macau
wants to win. but you can't be like.
uh. "I'm here to...
I'm here to win the GSEA."
or. you know. "Who are..."
You know. you have to be friendly.
You have to get to know your "opponent."
So. the first day.
is just getting to know each other.
Seeing. who am I dealing with?
Which room is he in?
Is he direct competition?
Is he indirect competition?
What's going on?
Can everybody take their seats?
Okay. So. over the next few days.
as you know. tomorrow.
you have the semi-final rounds.
so. you are all going to be competing. uh.
for the Global Student Entrepreneur Award.
But there are also
three other awards this year.
MARISA: Okay. He's stuck at the airport.
He goes. "For some funny reason.
don't seem to understand English.
"Tried to explain to them my situation.
and the only thing they keep telling me
"is that I have to change
my return ticket today."
JASON: He wasn't allowed to get in?
But why? Did he have some issues
with his. uh. visa?
MAN: We're still trying to figure out
what's happening.
-Wow.
-JASON: Wow. man. That's a bummer.
-Oh. my God. Oh. my gosh.
JASON: Wow.
I just talked
to the airport. and.
uh. they said that the main problem.
when he come here
he's supposed to have minimum
5000 Macau money.
-but he only bring 2000.
-Mm-hmm.
-Okay. Okay.
-WOMAN:  Yeah.
MARISA: Hold on. I have a message.
MALE ANNOUNCER: Ladies and gentlemen.
welcome to the opening reception
for GSEA 2019.
Immigration has confirmed
they released Henry back to the airlines.
that their procedure is "done."
Um. but we can't get in contact with him.
She tried to call him.
-His phone seems to be off.
-STEPHEN: So. what does that mean?
-Well...
-The airlines have to bring him back to...
WOMAN:
Well. it sounds like he has to leave
-based on...
-Oh...
It's not looking good.
The issue is that we can't get to him
in where he is.
and Immigration doesn't let our people in.
There's...
-MARISA: Yeah. There's nothing we can do.
-We are not bigger than the government.
So. it's sounding like
they've deported him. Oh. no.
MALE INTERVIEWER:
Why do you think they deported you?
Macau is a gambling city.
People come here with money.
I didn't look like I came to gamble.
I look like the gamble itself.
...uh. combine that
with my beautiful skin color maybe.
I don't know.
HENRY: We had to book a return ticket
back to Nairobi.
But then we also booked another ticket
from Macau to Beijing.
Beijing back to Macau.
If I could prove that I've left Macau
and then come back.
my entry should've been treated
like a new entry. and. this time.
I had the 5000 dollars that they wanted.
Nineteen. 19 are the years
of my life experience.
But before this 19. there's a man who...
who lived in a... in a...
-JASON: Again.
-Okay.
Nineteen. 19 are the years
of my life experience.
But before this 19. there's a man
who born in the village in...
off the Nile delta of Egypt.
Here. you can go slower. man.
Now you're talking about yourself.
how your relationship
with your dad made you feel.
-So. you know. I mean...
-MAHMOUD: Oh. yeah.
...you... you don't have to stick
to the script 100%.
-MAHMOUD: Yes.
-Just think of what's the message
-you wanna sell with the judges.
-Mm-hmm.
JASON:
And. you know. even if you got confused.
just say what you wanna truly say to them.
-MAHMOUD: Yes.
-Own your story.
It's not about the script. It's about
how this whole thing made you feel.
Because that will be
what the judge will remember.
-Yeah.
-JASON: Because. you know. the judges
won't remember what you said.
So. no matter
if you're saying it fast or slow.
but they will remember
how you made them feel.
-MAHMOUD: Yeah. yeah.
-So. if you... if you...
-Exactly.
-MAHMOUD: Yeah.
If you hit them with emotion.
then you're good to go.
-Yeah.
-JASON: Okay.
-Let's try again? Yeah.
-JASON: Let's try again. Yeah.
-
Thank you.
-MAN: Are you ready?
-BOTH: Yeah.
SANTOSH:
-STUDENT 1: Yeah.
-
SANTOSH: Yeah.
-STUDENT 1: Yeah. let's take a selfie.
-POLO: Woo-hoo!
SANTOSH: Man.
Okay.
-MALE INTERVIEWER: Okay. Ready.
You know how they say
that entrepreneurship
is jumping off a plane
and then building the parachute
while going down?
So. is the entry in Macau for me.
Five countries and four days later.
I do not take being here for granted.
So. to begin. I'd like to say
I am grateful for the opportunity
to stand before you
to even make this presentation.
MALE INTERVIEWER:
How do you feel about tomorrow?
Um. I... I want... I hope to win it.
At this point.
I've lost so much that... I have to win.
Like. I really do have to win.
One of my mentors. he's from Phoenix.
And he told me that I... I need to take
out all of my bad energy
through all my body.
and then go through all my legs.
and throw it away.
so I can win new energy.
So. I'm gonna do all that stuff
before I go into the presentation.
...and breathe.
OVER PA
DANIELA: Okay. Hello. everyone.
My name is Daniela Blanco.
and I am the co-founder of Sunthetics.
where we're transforming
the chemical industry
and making it clean. starting with nylon.
as we offer the first competitive path
to manufacture it sustainably.
But how do we get there?
Well. let me introduce you
to the three-year-old me.
STEPHEN: Okay. guys. this is the day
you've all been waiting for.
-This is the semi-final rounds.
-
STEPHEN: Okay. So. you all know
which rooms you're in.
Room two is Marina.
Where's Marina? There's Marina.
Marina is gonna take Bolivia.
Dominican Republic. Japan.
Malaysia. India. Switzerland.
Sri Lanka and Nepal.
Can all of you please go
with Marina to room two please?
But I do not give up. I start meeting
different people every day.
looking for some positivity
and lessons to learn.
Oh.
It's okay. It's okay.
Students. we have one minute
before we start the competition. Woo-hoo!
I'm excited. I am excited.
JASON: For better or worse.
all those competitions are about
how much practice have you done.
Do you know your product?
Have you done your research?
Do you actually know what you're talking
about or you're just here blabbing?
-MAN: Let's rock.
-ALONDRA: Okay.
MALE ANNOUNCER: All right.
We have Alondra. from Puerto Rico.
FEMALE ANNOUNCER:
Santosh Pandey. from Nepal.
MALE ANNOUNCER: Daniela Blanco.
representing the United States.
What happens if one of us
doesn't have the capacity to hear?
To relate to others?
How will we communicate?
SANTOSH: We present Offering Happiness.
How would you feel if you're 5000 miles
away from your loved one.
and today is his birthday?
It's our guarantee to make him happy
and feel special.
...to listen to my story.
I am the co-founder of Sunthetics.
where we're making
the chemical industry green.
starting with nylon.
as we offer the only cost-effective path
to manufacturing sustainably.
iCry2Talk translates in real-time
a baby's cry by leveraging AI.
In other words.
we're the Shazam of crying.
We do some feature extraction
using advanced...
ALONDRA: I really want to be the bridge
between the noise and the silence.
So. join me to give voice to those
who currently don't have it. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-
JASON: I feel thankful. grateful.
and blessed for the opportunities
and challenges that lay ahead. Thank you.
Hi.
Yeah. It was... it was awesome.
Yeah. I did it. I finally did it.
Yeah. I'm very proud of that.
Yeah. What do you think I was?
-MALE INTERVIEWER:
-Really?
-I feel... I feel
I did something good in my life.
I feel the... I love it. you know?
Yeah.
FLIGHT ATTENDANT OVER PA:
Ladies and gentlemen. welcome to Macau.
For your safety. please remain seated
until the aircraft has come
to a complete stop.
It was great. I think it was great.
I was nervous.
but... for the Q and A part...
...I thought I was like...
like 30 minutes because it was. like.
16 questions. I don't know.
HENRY:
I was officially deported the first time.
And I was so sure that this lady here
at the immigration is going to flag us.
SANTOSH: I did good.
Better than I expected. I was so nervous.
And actually. this morning
I calmed down in the last hour.
I think that helped me a lot.
JASON: You get anxious with waiting.
So. while I was waiting.
I was so eager to get inside. and pitch.
and start talking about what I do.
But. you know. that anxious overcomes you.
But once you get in there. you know.
say a couple of jokes.
HENRY: So. when they stamped my passport
and let me in. I was confused.
I was like. "What. what just happened?"
Oh. my God.
We made it.
-We got this.
-Oh. man.
-MAN: Okay. let's go.
-Woo-hoo!
HENRY: Yeah. let's go and do this.
Entrepreneurs like me.
we create the future. Thank you.
When you have passion.
nothing will stop you.
That's it. Thank you very much. guys.
Henry. he's presenting
in about five minutes.
And it's... it's definitely close. yes.
-SHAMIM: Oh. my God.
-We just landed right now. actually.
-My man. You made it finally. man.
- I'm here.
Thank you. people. Thank you.
-Dude. hi.
-Hi.
-I don't even know where I'm pitching.
-Yeah. I do. Just. I'll just check.
HENRY: A cold coke would wake me up.
-Yeah. Hopefully.
-Stephen. Nice to meet you.
-HENRY: Henry.
-Welcome. Finally.
-Nice to meet you all.
-How much sleep have you had?
-Uh. none.
-None?
-WOMAN: Yup.
-STEPHEN: As soon as she's done.
I'm gonna go right in
while they're scoring.
-TYLER: So. Henry's here.
-HENRY: Yay.
He made it.
He came all the way from Kenya
-and was...
-MAN: Was deported.
Yup. He was supposed to be here.
I think. a day or two ago.
and flight issues and immigration.
got held up in immigration...
Everybody. Henry is. uh. from Kenya
and has a business.
Is it Roometo Limited?
Very cool.
So. when you're ready. you can start.
I'm gonna start the timer.
And there is a pointer up there.
if you want that. Yeah.
-A what?
-TYLER: You got it right in your hand.
-Yup. You're good.
-Okay.
-Yeah. We can start.
-TYLER: Go ahead.
You know how they say entrepreneurship
is like jumping off a plane
without a parachute
and then building one down...
on your way down?
Well. that's how it felt
like coming to Macau.
-
Five countries in four days.
A plan that had
a 50% chance to fail.
So. believe me when I say
that I'm truly humbled
and grateful to be here today.
In Kenya. we have one million students
enrolled in universities alone.
The total bed space that
these universities have. 280.000.
Enter Roometo.
We exist for one sole purpose.
to help university students
and college students.
I needed to try and see...
see the whole thing through.
If I didn't get this closure.
it would have bothered me
for a very long time.
SANTOSH:
-FEMALE INTERVIEWER:
-
STEPHEN: Okay. everybody.
-It's come to that time of the evening.
-
You've all survived the global finals.
the semi-final rounds.
-Congratulations. Well done.
-
As you know.
we had seven semi-final rooms today.
We had people arriving from nine o'clock
until the final mad dash from the airport.
So. a big round of applause
to our final competitor
who finally made it to the country
to be able to compete.
I have in my hand seven envelopes.
-Drum roll. everybody. please.
-
STEPHEN: Room number seven.
-Hamza Qadoumi. from Sweden.
-
-Hamza. from Sweden. come on up.
-STEPHEN: And room six winner is.
-Johanna Salazar. Ecuador.
-Ecuador.
-
STEPHEN: Room five. Alberto.
-Alberto Soto Benitez. from Guatemala.
-
STEPHEN: Room four. Tyler's ready.
TYLER: And the winner is...
-Alida. from Canada.
-
STEPHEN: Alida Burke.
Room three. drum roll please.
-Gustavo Fuga. from Brazil.
-MALE VOICE: Oh. yeah!
-STEPHEN: Gustavo. from Brazil.
-
STEPHEN: Room two. And the winner is...
Eddy Alvarado.
from the Dominican Republic.
-Dominican Republic. Room two.
-
STEPHEN: Come on up.
And finally. room one.
Drum roll. everybody. please.
-STEPHEN: The room one winner is...
-MALE VOICE: Daniela Blanco. USA.
-
STEPHEN: Daniela Blanco. from USA.
come on stage please.
HENRY:
I thought. "Okay. maybe I can do better."
But I did my best given what I had.
and given how I was in that state.
and. you know...
JASON: If I keep chasing opportunities.
and if I continue believing in myself
and not doubt on the things I'm doing.
I'll eventually do something big.
I don't know
if iCry2Talk will be that big.
I'm hoping it to be.
I'm expecting it to be.
but if not. you know.
that's what entrepreneurship is about.
Even if you fail. you have to try
and do something else.
You have to continue.
I didn't feel bad because I know that
there was a lot of competition here.
I feel accomplished.
and I feel proud of what I did.
so. I had the opportunity
to share my story. and that was the idea.
I'm so motivated right now.
I really wanna do serious business now.
Now I'm going to work very seriously.
and I think...
Yeah. I'm surprised. I mean.
my table was like... amazing people.
And now the pressure of representing
200 million people is like.
it's getting on me.
So. uh. I'm feeling really proud
to represent the Brazilian of today.
Okay. sweetheart.
-DANIELA: Mommy.
-Your mommy.
DANIELA: I was really. really nervous.
And I talk a lot when I'm nervous.
but I couldn't talk. so it was even worse.
And. um. we had to learn a lot
about hydroponics. We didn't really...
I've definitely been much more
of a shy individual.
So. so. telling more of my story's
always been a little bit nerve-racking.
And sort of pulling back the curtains
on who you are.
I think is definitely nerve-racking
for sure.
FEMALE INTERVIEWER:
That's a big challenge.
So. when we had our first paying customer.
we've also learned...
ALBERTO: I don't follow a script.
Like. following a script
is for actors that don't know their lines.
I am a competitive person.
I do wanna win.
I will be very happy to... to win.
So. I'm gonna give 200% up there.
GUSTAVO:
We are trying to say in ten minutes
a story of seven years of work.
So. that's pretty much
what I was trying to fix. you know?
I thought we were gonna be
in the event hall
that we were in yesterday and today.
but this is twice as big. probably.
It's massive.
The stage is big.
There are 16 judges that will be. yeah.
roasting you on stage.
Welcome to the 2019
GSEA Global Student Entrepreneur Awards.
STEPHEN: Yesterday. we had
51 different nationalities
representing their countries as the top
student entrepreneurs in their country.
So. I'd like to give
a big round of applause
for all of the 51 finalists
who made it here to pitch.
STEPHEN: If you join me with a big round
of applause to introduce our first
student entrepreneur. Eddy Alvarado.
EDDY: Thank you. everyone.
I come from one of the poorest
and most dangerous neighborhood
in Dominican Republic.
And my family didn't have enough money
to pay. uh. technical institute for me.
So. what I did. I learned all that
I could through self...
-DANIELA: I got this little note.
And the note was from Jorge.
from Colombia.
And he just wrote down that.
you know. that he wished me the best.
That. you know. like. "Go get them.
Like. you have a story
that deserves to be heard."
He wanted everyone in the room
to hear what immigrants go through.
And what South America
is going through. and...
and. you know. how many people
can come from difficult backgrounds
and still make it.
So. it... it was. like. the support
that I needed right before going in.
GUSTAVO: ...uh. and now I am the CEO.
and I have a team
of 70 people working fulltime
to transform the reality of education
in a sustainable and profitable way.
In the next 30 months...
DANIELA:
I was born and raised in Venezuela.
so. my heart.
my values are from Venezuela.
At the same time.
I became an entrepreneur in the US.
They actually made me who I am today.
-Thank you.
-
STEPHEN: Ladies and gentlemen.
our third student entrepreneur
is Daniela Blanco. representing the USA.
DANIELA:
I truly believe I'm representing the US.
and everything they do
for immigrants and people like me
who wanna have a second chance
and a real future.
And. at the same time.
I'm speaking for all those Venezuelans
who want to show the world
that we're more than a country
in a crisis.
We're people who have dreams
and who want a better world
for all of us together.
Hello. everyone.
Thank you so much for being here today.
My name is Daniela Blanco.
and I am the co-founder of Sunthetics.
I was born in tropical Venezuela.
Only daughter to this beautiful lady.
my mom.
who's unbelievably sitting here
with us today.
I think I was four years old
the first time I told her
that I wanted to do science.
But the good kind of science.
The kind of science that helped people.
In fact. as I grew up.
I challenged the status quo
of this industry
to reinvent the chemical industry
as we know it.
And what I want to do is electrify it.
That means using electricity...
...incredibly happy
to license their technology from us.
And the fourth option. it. um...
I actually have some slides on the...
Well. we don't have them. It's okay.
Um. in which 25.000 tons
that will bring the price down...
Whatever lies ahead of me.
it's not gonna break me.
It's only gonna make me better.
It is gonna make me exactly the person
that I need to be so that.
together with this amazing team.
I can make Sunthetics a reality.
For your future. for mine.
and for everyone else who comes after us.
-Thank you.
-
STEPHEN: Thank you very much.
Daniela. representing the USA.
So. while the judges are deliberating...
-DANIELA: Did you like it?
-TYLER: It was so good.
-I freaked out. I missed a few things.
-Oh. rock... No. You rocked it.
Because the monitors confused me.
My voice. half of it stayed with me
for the entire thing. so. thank you. God.
But. um. uh...
Every time we think we are good.
we remember that we can be better.
We can... we must strive for perfection.
It wasn't perfect.
but I really did my best.
And I spoke from my heart.
-
Okay.
JASON: In Greece. you don't have a lot
of examples concerning the startup scene.
But seeing. like. students my age
being able to dream of changing the world.
I mean. that really talk to me.
If they can do it. I can do it.
I don't see why I can't.
HUSTON: When you're in Africa.
the problems that need to be solved
are fundamental.
On the other hand.
technology is really sort of an equalizer.
All you need is a laptop
and an internet connection.
and you could build something profitable
that solves all of those problems.
-ALONDRA:
KUNDA: The reason most Nepalis leave
is because of the lack
of job opportunities here.
That is out of desperation.
Basically. there are no young men
left in the villages.
especially in rural areas.
The most heartening thing to see now.
are startups like these
that creates jobs at home.
and creates happiness.
MIGUEL: A lot of the greatest companies
in the US were founded by immigrants.
You already took a huge risk
when you immigrated.
uh. so taking risks
to start companies doesn't seem that huge.
Comparatively. it's a much smaller risk.
HENRY:
Don't give up. There's always a way.
This whole experience proved that to me.
If opportunity won't knock on your door...
...wall.
-
STEPHEN:
So. could I ask the seven global finalists
to join me on stage please?
Can we get a big round of applause
for the seven global finalists?
STEPHEN:
We're going to award the third prize.
Can I have the envelope please?
Drum roll. please.
-And third place goes to...
And the winner is Gustavo Fuga.
-STEPHEN: Gustavo Fuga. from Brazil.
-
STEPHEN: Okay. So. second place.
And the award goes to...
Alberto Soto Benitez.
-STEPHEN: Guatemala. Congratulations.
-
DANIELA:
I was just getting more and more nervous.
And like. the lights.
and you see everyone looking at you.
and there were so many people.
I was standing next to Dominican Republic.
and I was telling him.
like. "I don't know. I just feel like.
too nervous and everything.
"Can I hold your hand for a second?"
And the first place. GSEA 2019 winner.
the award goes to...
Daniela Blanco.
-Daniela Blanco. USA.
-
Yes!
DANIELA:
I couldn't believe it for a second.
I was just thinking like. "Oh. my God.
Like. it actually worked out." You know?
"Like. it happened.
And... And. like. it's me."
Then they brought my mom on stage.
and then I lost it.
STEPHEN: So. the GSEA Innovation Award
goes to Alondra Toledo.
-STEPHEN: Alondra Toledo!
-
HENRY:
But we think we can actually do it.
JASON:
Hi. Can I get
two pepperoni slices. please?
Two.
DANIELA: When I moved to New York.
I wanted to do my PhD
in something that mattered.
Something that could one day
become something big
or that was important for the world.
But I didn't expect it to be me.
the one who would drive the change
or who would actually try
to make it happen.
I feel like if I can inspire one person
to fight for their own dream.
even if you are far away
from your family.
even if you're dealing
with so many problems.
you can still make it.
What we come from
does not define where we're going.